Update Platform View docs (#4721)
flutter/website: src/docs/development/platform-integration/platform-views.md

description: Learn how to host native Android and iOS views in your Flutter app with Platform Views.
---

Platform views allow to embed native views in a Flutter app.

The Flutter engine takes care of coordinating the platform

> and the Flutter compositors, so you can apply transforms,

Author: Done.

> and the Flutter compositors, so you can apply transforms,

Reviewer: ?

clips, and opacity to the native View from Dart.

This allows you, for example, to use the native
Google Maps from the Android and iOS SDKs
directly inside your Flutter app, by using Platform Views.

This page discusses how to host your own native views
within a Flutter app.

## Android

Flutter supports two modes: Virtual displays and Hybrid composition.

Which one to use depends on the use case. Let's take a look:

* Virtual displays renders the `android.view.View` instance to a texture,
  so it's not embedded within the Android Activity's view hierachy.
  Certain platform interactions such as keyboard handling, and accessibility
  features might not work.

* Hybrid composition requires Flutter 1.22. This mode appends the

>   native `android.view.View` to the view hirarchy. Therefore, keyboard

Reviewer: nit: typo (hierarchy)

Author: Done.

description: Learn how to host native Android and iOS views in your Flutter app with Platform Views.
---

Platform views allow to embed native views in a Flutter app. 

The Flutter engine takes care of coordinating the platform
and the Flutter compositors, so you can apply transforms,
clips, and opacity to the native View from Dart.

This allows you, for example, to use the native
Google Maps from the Android and iOS SDKs
directly inside your Flutter app, by using Platform Views.

This page discusses how to host your own native views
within a Flutter app.

## Android

Flutter supports two modes: Virtual displays and Hybrid composition.

Which one to use depends on the use case. Let's take a look:

* Virtual displays renders the native view to a texture,
  so it's not embeded within the Android view hierachy. Performance 

>   is good although certain platform interactions such as keyboard 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Certain platform interactions such as keyboard 
```

  handling, and accessibility features might not work.

* Hybrid composition requires Flutter 1.22. This mode appends the 

>   native view to the Android View hirarchy. Thefore, keyboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  native view to the Android View hierarchy. Therefore, keyboard
```

>   handling, and accesibility work out of the box. Performance is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  handling, and accessibility work out of the box.
```

>   good in Android 10 or above. Prior to Android 10, this mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Prior to Android 10, this mode
```

>   reduces the frame throughput (FPS) of the Flutter UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  may significantly reduce the frame throughput (FPS) of the Flutter UI.
```

For plugin registration, modify the main plugin file (e.g. `PlatformViewPlugin.java`):

```java
package dev.flutter.plugin.example;

import androidx.annotation.NonNull;
import io.flutter.embedding.engine.plugins.FlutterPlugin;
import io.flutter.plugin.common.BinaryMessenger;

public class PlatformViewPlugin implements FlutterPlugin {
  @Override
  public void onAttachedToEngine(@NonNull FlutterPluginBinding binding) {
    binding
        .getFlutterEngine()
        .getPlatformViewsController()
        .getRegistry()
        .registerViewFactory("<platform-view-type>", new NativeViewFactory());
  }
}
```

For more information, see the API docs for:

* [`FlutterPlugin`][]
* [`PlatformViewRegistry`][]
* [`PlatformViewFactory`][]
* [`PlatformView`][]

[`FlutterPlugin`][]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/embedding/engine/plugins/FlutterPlugin.html
[`PlatformViewFactory`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/plugin/platform/PlatformViewFactory.html
[`PlatformViewRegistry`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/plugin/platform/PlatformViewRegistry.html
[`PlatformView`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/plugin/platform/PlatformView.html

Finally, modify your `build.gradle` file to require either

> the minimal Android SDK version:

Reviewer: nit: s/either the/one of the/

Author: Done.

```gradle
android {
    defaultConfig {
        minSdkVersion 19 // if using Hybrid composition.
        minSdkVersion 20 // if using Virtual display.
    }
}
```

## iOS

iOS only uses Hybrid composition, which means that the native
`UIView` is appended to view hierarchy.

> In Flutter 1.22, platform views are enabled by default. This means

Reviewer: nit: I'd suggest rephrasing this as "Prior to Flutter 1.22 platform views were in developers preview and setting the... flag was required in order to use them on iOS"

Author: Done.

[`FlutterPlugin`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Protocols/FlutterPlugin.html
[`UIKitView`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/UiKitView-class.html

## Putting it together

When implementing the `build()` method in Dart, you can use [`defaultTargetPlatform`][]
to detect the platform, and decide what widget to use:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  // This is used in the platform side to register the view.
  final String viewType = '<platform-view-type>';
  // Pass parameters to the platform side.
  final Map<String, dynamic> creationParams = <String, dynamic>{};

  switch (defaultTargetPlatform) {
    case TargetPlatform.android:
      // return widget on Android.
    case TargetPlatform.iOS:
      // return widget on iOS.
    default:
      throw UnsupportedError("Unsupported platform view");
  }
}
```

[`defaultTargetPlatform`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/foundation/defaultTargetPlatform.html

### Performance

Platform views in Flutter come with performance trade-offs.

For example, in a typical Flutter app, the Flutter UI is composed
on a dedicated raster thread. This allows Flutter apps to be fast,
as the main platform thread is rarely blocked.

> While a platform view is rendered, the Flutter UI is composed from

Reviewer: Is this always the case or only with hybrid composition?

Author: Done.

the platform thread, which competes with other tasks like
handling OS or plugin messages, etc.

Prior to Android 10, Hybrid composition copies each Flutter frame

> out of the graphic memory into main memory and then copied back to

Reviewer: nit: s/copied back/copies back/

Author: Done.

a GPU texture. As this copy happens per frame, the performance of
the entire Flutter UI may be impacted.

On the other hand, Virtual display makes each pixel of the native view
flow through additional intermediate graphic buffers, which cost graphic

> memory and drawing perfomance.

Reviewer: nit: typo (performance)

Author: Done.

For complex cases, there are some techniques that can be used to mitigate
these issues.

> 

Reviewer: Missing section on the performance impact of hybrid composition on Android >= 10

Author: Done.

[`FlutterPlugin`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Protocols/FlutterPlugin.html
[`UIKitView`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/UiKitView-class.html

## Putting it together

When implementing the `build()` method in Dart, you can use [`defaultTargetPlatform`][]
to detect the platform, and decide what widget to use:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  // This is used in the platform side to register the view.
  final String viewType = '<platform-view-type>';
  // Pass parameters to the platform side.
  final Map<String, dynamic> creationParams = <String, dynamic>{};

  switch (defaultTargetPlatform) {
    case TargetPlatform.android:
      // return widget on Android.
    case TargetPlatform.iOS:
      // return widget on iOS.
    default:
      throw UnsupportedError("Unsupported platform view");
  }
}
```

[`defaultTargetPlatform`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/foundation/defaultTargetPlatform.html

### Performance

Platform views in Flutter come with performance trade-offs.

For example, in a typical Flutter app, the Flutter UI is composed
on a dedicated raster thread. This allows Flutter apps to be fast,
as the main platform thread is rarely blocked.

> While a platform view is rendered with Hybrid composition, the Flutter

Reviewer: nit: it sounds like this is happening while the platform view is visible, which is what we want to ideally have but not where we're currently at

Author: This is correct. We merge and unmerge threads.

Reviewer: 👍 
Sorry got confused

[`PlatformViewRegistry`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/plugin/platform/PlatformViewRegistry.html
[`PlatformView`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/plugin/platform/PlatformView.html

Finally, modify your `build.gradle` file to require either 
the minimal Android SDK version:

```gradle
android {
    defaultConfig {
        minSdkVersion 19 // if using Hybrid composition.
        minSdkVersion 20 // if using Virtual display.
    }
}
```

### Performance

> Hybrid composition on Android works best on Android 10 or above.

Reviewer: I'll add a section about VD performance, maybe something like:

Each pixel is flowing through additional intermediate graphic buffers (that are as big as the platform view) which cost in graphic memory and drawing perfomance.

Reviewer: Can we say something about the performance post Android 10? I'm assuming we have similar performance hit to VDs?

> On lower versions of Android, the engine makes a device-host-device

Reviewer: Can we spell this out in more detail? I'm not sure what device-host-device copy means?

Is it correct to say something like:
On Android versions older than 10, the hybrid composition mode copies each Flutter frame out of the graphic memory into main memory and then copied back to a GPU texture. As this copy happens per frame the performance of the entire Flutter UI may be impacted significantly.
